hey this is partial Walker after a
successful mission each of n spies
learns a secret
now each spy needs to learn all of the
secrets how do they do that by protocol
despise exchange information through a
series of phone calls between two spies
at a time during a phone call a spy can
share all of the secrets learn from
previous calls what is the minimum
number of calls so that all spies learn
all of the secrets solve this problem
for two different types of communication
one case is one-way calls only the spy
that calls can transmit information the
other case is two-way calls where both
spies can exchange information during
the phone call give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video for the solution will consider
one-way calls one protocol is that
everyone calls once by a and then that
spy calls everyone back when you have
two spies spy B call spy a and then spy
a calls back this takes two calls when
you have three spies two more calls are
necessary spies B and C call spy a who
is fully informed and then spy a calls
back to B and then C this is four calls
the new spy needed one call to call to a
and then one call to learn the
information from a each new spy will
take two calls and the procedure can be
generalized when you have n spies all of
the N minus one spies first call a this
is n minus one calls and then a calls
back to all of the N minus one spies
these are another n minus one calls
making a total of two n minus two calls
this is one procedure so that all the
spies learn all the secrets but there's
another one that can be advantageous
sometimes this is a great
the algorithm which looks like a
circular calling pattern the advantage
here is that each call shares the most
number of secrets so imagine arranging
the spies around in a circle spy a calls
clockwise around to all the spies so spy
a call spy B which shares one secret B
call C which shares another secret C
calls D and so on when we get to the
last Spy before a this five will learn
all of the other secrets this last by
then calls a who learns all of the
secrets this first chain of calls each
of the N spies receives one call so
there are a total of n calls now the
last spy and spy a are fully informed
but now the other n minus 2 spies need
to be informed so spy a continues
another chain of calls calling B be call
C and so on the last by and spy a are 2
spies that already know all the secrets
so these are 2 spies that do not need to
receive calls so the second chain can be
done in n minus 2 calls we don't need
those last two calls this again makes
for total of 2 n minus 2 calls and all
the spies learn all of the secrets
what about two-way calls when you have
two spies you only need one call because
both spies can exchange information in
that call when you have three spies
spies a and B can make a call then B and
C can make a call so B and C are fully
informed at this point but spy a does
not know spicy secret so one more call
is necessary and that makes for total of
three calls when you have four spies
there's a very efficient procedure of
making calls we arranged a spies in a
square the spies that are on parallel
sides make calls then we make the calls
which are perpendicular to those calls
in a matter of four calls all of the
four spies
are informed if we make the calls in a
particular order
this pattern of exchanging information
for four spies is extremely efficient
and it can be generalized to the case of
n spies we designate four of the spies
as hubs everyone calls one of the spies
in the hub the four hub spies then share
secrets so that those four spies that
know all of the secrets and then someone
from the hub calls everyone else who's
not in the hub back so we have the four
spies we designate to be in the hub then
we have the other n minus four spies so
they're going to call someone in the hub
in this diagram I've just designated all
the calls going to be but some of the
calls can go to a a B C or D it doesn't
matter the other end - four spies just
need to call someone who's in the hub so
these n minus four spies need to make a
call to someone in the hub so the first
set of calls is n - four calls the four
spies in the hub will then exchange
information according to the protocol
for four spies they will all learn all
of the secrets
so at this point they will all be fully
informed in a matter of four more calls
now this information needs to get
distributed to the other n minus four
spies who are not in the hub so someone
from the hub needs to call back the
other n minus four spies in this diagram
I'll just depict it as bi be calling
everyone back but it could be a B C or D
because all these four spies are fully
informed so this will be another n minus
four calls so that everyone not in the
hub is fully informed we add up the
number of calls and we get to n minus
four calls and you can't get any more
efficient than that when you have n
spies sharing information in two-way
calls so now let's compare the two cases
when we have one-way calls we can either
have everyone calling the hub or we can
have a greedy algorithm which looks like
a circular calling pattern this is a
total of two
- - calls when you go to two-way calls
the protocol involves generalizing the
protocol for for spies now compare the
two formulas you might think when you
have two-way calls you would be able to
have the number of calls because each
call can exchange twice the information
both the caller and the receiver can
exchange information what we have is you
can only get a minimum of two n minus
four calls you only save two calls over
one-way calls when n is greater than
four and that's a really surprising
thing that even with two-way calls you
can't distribute information much more
efficiently than just the examples of
calling the hub or having a circular
calling pattern so it's a very
surprising thing that spreading
information is somewhat of an
inefficient process even if you have
two-way calls now in this video I've
claimed these are the minimum number of
calls that are necessary for these
procedures proving this for two-way
calls is actually something a little
more complicated so I provided a proof
in another video you can check the video
description for that link and you can
watch the video why 2 + - 4 is the
minimum a number of calls for to wait
calls thanks for watching this video
please subscribe to my channel I make
videos on math and game theory you can
catch around my blog mind your decisions
which you can follow on Facebook Google+
and patreon you can catch me on social
media at personal Locker and if you like
the video please check out my books
there are links in the video description